Chapter 1: Handling Date, Time, Text, Numeric
and Boolean Values

1.  A.   The Duration class is used to reflect an amount of time using

small units like minutes. Since it just uses units of time it does not
involve time zones. The LocalTime class contains units of hours,
minutes, seconds, and fractional seconds. The LocalDateTime class
contains all the data in a LocalTime and adds on a year, month,
and date. Since none of the three classes listed includes a time
zone, option A is correct.

2.  B.   This is a valid text block. Since the closing triple quotes (""")
are on a new line, the code prints the three lines of text followed
by a blank line and option B is the answer.

3.  A, C.   An identifier name must begin with a letter, currency

symbol (such as $), or underscore (_). Numbers are permitted
only for subsequent characters. Therefore, option C is not a valid
variable name. Additionally, an identifier may not be a single
underscore, making option A an invalid variable name.

4.  A.   A Period is measured in days, weeks, months, or years. A

Duration is measured in smaller units like minutes or seconds.
Only Duration has a getSeconds() method, making option A
correct.

5.  C.   On a normal night, adding three hours to 1 a.m. makes it 4

a.m. However, this date begins daylight saving time. This means
we add an extra hour to skip the 2 a.m. hour. This makes later
contain 05:00 instead of 04:00 and the offset changes. Therefore,
the code prints 5 false, and option C is correct.

6.  A.   In a ternary expression, only one of the two right-most

expressions is evaluated. Since meal>6 is false, tip-- is evaluated,
and tip++ is skipped. The result is that tip is changed from 2 to 1,
making option A the correct answer. The value of total is 7, since
the post-decrement operator was used on tip, although you did
not need to know this to solve the question.

7.  C.   LocalDate allows passing the month as an int or Month enum

parameter. However, Month.MARCH is an enum. It cannot be assigned
to an int variable, so the declaration of month does not compile,
and option C is correct.

8.  E.   Trick question. There is no reverse method on the String

class. There is one on the StringBuilder class. Therefore, the code
does not compile, and option E is correct.

9.  D.   A StringBuilder is mutable, so the length is 2 after line 6

completes. The StringBuilder methods return a reference to the
same object, so you can chain method calls. Therefore, line and
anotherLine refer to the same object. This means that line 7 prints
true. Then on line 9, both references point to the same object of
length 2, and option D is correct.

10.  C.   While there is no 2 a.m. on the clock that night, Java adjusts
the time to 3 a.m. automatically and changes the time zone. It
does not throw an exception, so option D is incorrect. Option B is
a valid time, since any value after the time adjustment is just a
normal time on the clock. Since both options A and B are valid
times, option C is the correct answer.

11.  A.   Since the closing triple quotes (""") are at the beginning of the

line, there is no incidental whitespace. By contrast, there is
essential whitespace before both green and yellow, making option
A correct.

12.  B.   This code is tricky because only int values are passed in.
However, the parameters passed to ceil() and pow() are
implicitly cast to double since those two methods take double
parameters and return a double result. The max() method returns
an int, giving us option B.

13.  B.   Line 12 creates a Period representing a year, six months, and

three days. Adding this to waffleDay gives us the year 2023, the
month of September, and a day of 28. This new date is stored in
later on line 13 and represents September 28, 2023. Line 14 has
no effect, as the return value is ignored. Line 17 checks that you
know that isBefore() returns false if the value is an exact match.

Since thisOne is an exact match but thatOne is a whole day before,
the output is false true, making option B correct.

14.  A, C, E.   Options A, C, and E are correct because they all operate

on boolean values. Options B and D operate on numbers. Option F
is not an operator, although it is used to indicate an annotation.

15.  D.   Duration is supposed to be used with objects that contain
times. While it has an ofDays() method, this is a convenience
method to represent a large number of seconds. This means that
calling Duration.ofDays(1) is fine. However, this code throws an
UnsupportedTemporalTypeException when you try to pass it to the
minus() method on LocalDate, making option D correct. Note that
the question asks about a possible result rather than the definitive
result because the format of dates varies by region.

16.  A.   A String is immutable, so a different object is returned on line
6. The object anotherLine points to is of length 2 after line 6
completes. However, the original line reference still points to an
object of length 1. Therefore, option A is correct.

17.  D.   Both byte and short do not compile since they do not store

values with decimal points. Next, note that 3.14 is automatically a
double. It requires casting to float or writing 3.14f to be assigned
to a float. Since only double compiles, option D is the answer.

18.  G.   This question is tricky. It appears to be about daylight saving

time. However, the result of z.plusHours(1) is never stored in a
variable or used. Since ZonedDateTime is immutable, the time
remains at 01:00. The code prints out 1 true, making none of
these correct and option G the answer.

19.  C.   The bitwise complement operator (~) inverts all bits in the
number. You can calculate this by negating the number and
subtracting one, which is -9 in this case. Applying the bitwise
complement operator twice gives you the original number, which
is 8. Therefore, option C is the answer.

20.  B.   The charAt() and length() methods are declared on both
String and StringBuilder. However, the insert() method is
declared only on a StringBuilder and not a String. Therefore,

option B is correct.

21.  D.   There are three overloads for LocalTime.of(). Options A, B,
and C are all valid overloads. Option D is not because Java only
allows passing one fractional second parameter. Java does
support nanoseconds, but not the further granularity of
picoseconds.

22.  A, E, F.   The triple quotes (""") are the text block syntax. Option

A is correct, as only the two quotes around "kitten" are output.
The \n gives a blank line since it is at the end of the line. The last
line is also blank, making option E correct. Finally, option F is
correct, as \s preserves trailing whitespace.

23.  A, B.   Option A is correct and lists the operators in the same or

increasing level of operator precedence. In option B, the three
operators actually have the same operator precedence, so it is
correct. Option C is incorrect, as division (/) has a lower
precedence than the decrement operator (--). Option D is
incorrect because the logical complement operator (!) has a
higher order of precedence than the other two operators. Option E
lists the operators in the correct order, but they don't fit within
not equals (!=) and the increment operator (++) as listed in the
question. In particular, the compound addition operator (+=) and
the short-circuit logical operator (&&) have a lower precedence
than the not equals operator (!=). Finally, option F is incorrect
because the relational operator (<) does not fit between the
multiplication operator (*) and the division operator (/) in order
of precedence.

24.  C.   The LocalDate class represents a date using year, month, and

day fields. There is a getYear() method to get the year. The Period
class holds units of years, months, and days. It has a getYears()
method. There is not a date/time class called ZonedDate. There is a
class called ZonedDateTime, which does have a getYear() method.
Since only LocalDate and Period have a method to get the year,
option C is correct.

25.  E.   The diagram represents all cases where apples or oranges is
true, but bananas is false, making option E correct. Option A is

close but is correct only if the top overlapping portion of apples
and oranges was filled in. For fun, you should try to draw the
diagrams that would represent the other answers.

26.  B.   The first thing to notice is that this is a LocalTime object. Since

there is no date component, options C and D are incorrect. Four
parameters are passed to this LocalTime method. The first three
are the hour, minute, and second. The fourth is nanoseconds,
which are fractions of a second. While you aren't expected to do
calculations with nanoseconds, you should know that a fraction of
a second is at the end of the output. Option A is incorrect because
.4 is 40 percent of a second. That's far larger than 4 nanoseconds.
Therefore, option B is correct.

27.  B.   Since StringBuilder is mutable, each call to append adds to the
value. When calling print, toString() is automatically called, and
333 806 1601 is output. Therefore, option B is correct.

28.  A.   Option A does not compile because Java does not allow

declaring different types as part of the same declaration. The
other three options show various legal combinations of combining
multiple variables in the same declarations with optional default
values.

29.  A.   The ChronoUnit enum contains values for various measures of

time, including HOURS, so option A is correct.

30.  D, F.   Options D and F are correct since only the stripIndent()

and stripTrailing() methods exist.

31.  D.   Adding three hours to 13:00 makes it 16:00. While this date

happens to be the start of daylight saving time, the change occurs
at 2 a.m. This code uses 13:00, which is 1 p.m. Since the
calculation does not cross 2 a.m., the fact that it is the date that
starts daylight saving time is irrelevant. Option D is correct
because the hour is 16 and there is no offset.

32.  C.   The trim() method returns a String with all leading and

trailing white space removed. In this question, that's the seven-
character String: ":) - (:". Options A and B are incorrect
because they do not remove the first blank space in happy. Option

D is incorrect because it does not remove the last character in
happy. Therefore, option C is correct.

33.  C.   Underscores are allowed between any two digits in a numeric
literal, causing num4 to fail to compile. Additionally, underscores
are not allowed adjacent to a decimal point, causing a compiler
error in num2. Since two lines have errors, option C is the correct
answer.

34.  B.   This code correctly subtracts a day from montyPythonDay. It

then outputs a LocalDateTime value. Option A is incorrect because
it omits the time. Option B is correct because it represents one day
earlier than the original date and includes a time in the output.

35.  A, F.   The parseLong() method returns a long. Since this is a

primitive, we cannot call a method on it. Therefore, it does not
compile, and option A is one answer. By contrast, valueOf()
returns a Long wrapper class and gives the desired output, which
is option F.

36.  A.   The code compiles, so option D is incorrect. The input to the
constructor is ignored, making the assignment of end to be 4.
Since start is 2, the subtraction of 2 from 4 results in the
application printing 2, followed by 5, making option A the correct
answer.

37.  D.   February has 28 or 29 days, depending on the year. There is
never a February 31. Java throws a DateTimeException when you
try to create an invalid date, making option D correct.

38.  A.   This is a valid text block. Since the closing triple quotes (""")
are on the same line as the text, the code prints the three lines of
text without adding a blank line and option A is the answer.

39.  E.   Line 4 creates a String of length 5. Since String is immutable,
line 5 creates a new String with the value 1 and assigns it to
builder. Remember that indexes in Java begin with 0, so the
substring() method is taking the values from the fifth element
through the end. Since the first element is the last element, there's
only one character in there. Then line 6 tries to retrieve the
second indexed element. Since there is only one element, this

gives a StringIndexOutOfBoundsException, and option E is correct.

40.  E.   In the first time change of the year, clocks “spring ahead” and
skip the 02:00–03:00 hour entirely. This means 1:59 is followed
by 03:00 on March 13, 2022. By contrast, July 4 is a normal day
and 01:59 is followed by 02:00. In the second time change of the
year, clocks “fall back” and repeat an hour, so 01:59 is followed by
01:00. Granted, you can't tell whether this is the first or second
01:59 from the image. If this information is relevant to a
question's context, the question will specify this fact. In this case,
03:00, 02:00, 02:00 is not a choice. Option E is the answer.

41.  E.   The bitwise complement operator (~) works on numeric types,

not a boolean. Since the code does not compile, option E is
correct.

42.  F.   An Instant represents a specific moment in time using GMT.
Since there are no time zones included, options A and C are
incorrect. This code correctly adds one day to the instant. It
includes the date, making option F correct.

43.  D.   The code compiles and runs without issue, making option E

incorrect. In this example, partA is the integer division of the two
numbers. Since 3 does not divide 11 evenly, the result is rounded
down to 3. The variable partB is the remainder from the first
expression, which is 2. The results are added together, resulting in
the expression 3 * 5, or 15, and making option D correct.

44.  G.   The methods on Math are static. Since the class cannot be

instantiated, the code does not compile and the answer is option
G.

45.  E.   Make sure to pay attention to date types. This code attempts
to add a month to a LocalTime value. There is no plusMonths()
method on LocalTime, so option E is correct.

46.  B, F.   The original sample prints false, followed by george likes
bananas with a trailing space. Options B and F are correct because
isBlank() and strip() work the same way as the originals. The
key difference is that the replacements can handle an extended
range of whitespace characters.

47.  D.   Calling the constructor and then insert() is an example of

method chaining. However, the sb.length() call is a problem. The
sb reference doesn't exist until after the chained calls complete.
Just because it happens to be on a separate line doesn't change
when the reference is created. Since the code does not compile,
option D is correct.

48.  C.   While parentheses are recommended for ternary operations,
especially embedded ones, they are not required, so option D is
incorrect. The first expression evaluates to 10 >= 10, so the first
branch of the ternary operation is selected, and "Leftovers" can
be eliminated. The expression in the second ternary operation
evaluates to 3 <= 2, which is false, so "Salad" is selected, and
option C is correct.

49.  C.   Line 12 creates a Period representing three days. Period

objects do not chain, so only the last method call, which is
ofDays(3), is used in determining the value. Adding three days
sets later to March 28, 2022. Line 14 has no effect, as the return
value is not assigned. March 28, 2022 is before both thisOne and
thatOne, so option C is correct.

50.  D.   The simplest way of writing the numbers to be evaluated is

(1+1)*(1+2). These two pairs of parentheses must remain so that
the addition gets done before the multiplication and the answer
remains 6. The two pairs around the numbers and the additional
pair around the whole expression are redundant, giving us option
D. Remember, the println() method call still requires a set of
parentheses.

51.  A.   Since String is immutable, each call to concat() returns a new

object with the new value. However, that return value is ignored,
and the teams variable never changes in value. Therefore, it stays
as 694, and option A is correct.

52.  B.   While char has a wrapper class, it is Character rather than

Char. Therefore, option B is the answer.

53.  B.   This code begins by correctly creating four objects. It then

adds a month to date. Since these classes are immutable, this does

not affect the value of iceCreamDay. Therefore, iceCreamDay
remains in July. Since months count from one, option B is correct.

54.  C.   Line 7 prints 18 due to the 16 letters, one blank space, and one
newline character. Line 8 prints 21 since it indents each of the two
lines by a single character and normalizes the output by adding a
line break to the end. Line 9 prints 19 because it does not change
the indentation, but still adds the normalizing line break. Line 10
requests decreasing the indentation by 1. Since there isn't any
indentation in the original value, this behaves the same way as
line 9, printing 19. Option C is correct because lines 9 and 10 print
the same number.

55.  C.   First, bool and Bool are not valid Java types. They should be

boolean and Boolean, respectively. Next, objects are allowed to
have a null reference while primitives cannot. Since Integer and
String are objects, those lines compile. Finally, the line with int is
a primitive, so assigning null to it does not compile. Therefore,
option C is correct.

56.  D.   This is not a valid text block, as the text starts on the same line

as the opening triple quotes ("""). Therefore, option D is correct.

57.  A.   These classes are immutable. They use a static factory

method to get the object reference rather than a constructor. This
makes options B and D incorrect. Further, there is not a ZonedDate
class. There is a ZonedDateTime class. As a result, option C is
incorrect, and option A is the answer.

58.  D.   Lines 18 and 20 treat the \n as a newline and print two lines.
By contrast, line 19 sees \\n as literal text and prints a single line.
Line 21 also prints two lines since translateEscapes() turns \\n
into the newline escape character. Since three of these print two
lines, option D is the answer.

59.  A.   In the first expression, height > 1 is true. Since it uses the

logical operator (|), which evaluates both sides, the right side is
still executed, resulting in length being assigned a value of 2 and w
assigned a value of true. In the second expression, only the right-
hand side of the expression is evaluated, so x is assigned a value of

2, and length is unchanged. The last expression evaluates to 2 %
2, which is 0, so z is assigned a value of true and option A is
correct.

60.  E.   Both backslashes on line 13 can be removed since this is a text
block. Additionally, the second and third backslashes on line 14
can be removed. The first one must be retained since there are
three quotes in a row. Since four backslashes can be removed,
option E is correct.

61.  B.   The first line of code correctly creates a LocalDate object

representing March 3, 2022. The second line adds two days to it,
making it March 5. It then subtracts a day, making it March 4.
Finally, it subtracts yet another day, ending at March 3. The
outcome of all this is that we have two dates that have the same
value, and option B is correct.

62.  A.   Line 3 creates an empty StringBuilder. Line 4 adds three

characters to it. Line 5 removes the first character, resulting in ed.
Line 6 deletes the characters starting at position 1 and ending
right before position 2, which removes the character at index 1,
which is d. The only character left is e, so option A is correct.

63.  D.   Line 36 does not compile because Character is not a numeric
type and therefore doesn't supply a byteValue() method. All the
other lines compile, making option D the answer. Note that line
37 throws an exception since this is not a valid double value, but it
does compile. Additionally, line 35 runs successfully and evaluates
to false, since Boolean is accommodating.

64.  D.   Options A and B are not true if the String is "deabc". Option C
is not true if the String is "abcde". Option D is true in all cases.

65.  C.   An Instant represents a specific moment in time using GMT.
Since LocalDateTime does not have a time zone, it cannot be
converted to a specific moment in time. Therefore, the
toInstant() call does not compile, and option C is correct.

66.  C.   The whitespace to the left of the closing triple quotes (""") is
incidental whitespace. Additionally, there is essential whitespace
before yellow, making option C correct.

67.  E.   The code compiles, so option F is incorrect. The first

expression evaluates to true & false, which sets carrot to false.
The next expression resolves to true ? true : false, which
results in broccoli being set to true. The last expression reduces
to false ^ false, which sets potato to false. Therefore, option E
is the correct output.

68.  C.   Normally, adding an hour would result in 02:00 in the same
time zone offset of -05:00. Since the hour is repeated, it is 01:00
again. However, the time zone offset changes instead. Therefore,
option C is correct.

69.  D.   Line 4 creates a StringBuilder of length 5. Pay attention to the
substring() method in StringBuilder. It returns a String with the
value 321. It does not change the StringBuilder itself. Then line 6
retrieves the element at index 1 from that unchanged value, which
is 4. Therefore, option D is correct.

70.  D.   Since sum is a double, we can rule out options A, C, and E. Now

tracking the code, min() returns 3. The floor() method finds the
next lowest non-fractional number, which is 1.0, and turns sum
into 4.0. Finally, the round() method rounds up, which is 6, and
turns sum into 10.0. Therefore, option D is correct.


