1. A, B. Lines g1 and g2 do not compile because these methods are available only in the ScheduledExecutorService interface. Since s is of type ExecutorService, the lines referenced in options A and B do not compile. Even if the correct reference type for s was used, line g1 would still fail to compile because scheduleWithFixedDelay() requires two long values, one for the initial delay and one for the period. Line g3 compiles without issue because this method is available in the ExecutorService interface.
2. A, D. The code compiles and runs without issue. When a CompactNumberFormat instance is requested without a style, it uses the SHORT style by default. This results in both of the first two statements printing 960K, making option A correct. Option D is also correct, as the full value is printed with a currency formatter without rounding.
3. E. The ResultSet interface does not have a hasNext() method. Since the code does not compile due to a line without a comment, option E is the answer.
4. B. This code contains three stream pipelines for the price of one! Lines 11–13 are the first pipeline. They group the four Goat instances by the type of food they eat. This creates a Map logically similar to {hay=[hay, hay], can=[can], shorts=[shorts]}. Lines 14–17 are the second pipeline. This one starts by only including elements that have two matches, in our case hay. We then use the String key hay. Finally, this pipeline partitions the single key based on whether it has any characters, giving us {false=[hay], true=[]}. On line 18, we get just one of the lists leaving us with [hay]. The final pipeline is lines 19–21. It sorts the single element in an attempt to confuse you and then prints it. Therefore, only one hay is printed, and option B is the answer.
5. D. The code does not compile because the Jacket is marked final and cannot be extended by the anonymous class declared on line v2. Since this line doesn’t compile, option D is correct.
6. C, E. The diamond operator, <>, is only allowed to be used when instantiating rather than declaring. In other words, it can’t go on the left side of the assignment operator. Therefore, options B, D, and F are incorrect. The remaining three options compile. However, option A produces a warning because generics are not used on the right side of the assignment operator. Therefore, options C and E are correct. Option C is preferred over option E, since it uses the diamond operator rather than specifying a redundant type.
7. E, F. To perform a concurrent reduction, the stream or the collector must be unordered. Since it is possible to use an ordered collector with an unordered stream and achieve a parallel reduction, option A is incorrect. Option B is also incorrect. While having a threadsafe collection is preferred, it is not required. Stateful lambda expressions should be avoided, whether the stream is serial or parallel, making option C incorrect. Option D is incorrect as there is no class/interface within the JDK called ParallelStream. Options E and F are correct statements about performing parallel reductions.
8. E. The second catch block on line p2 does not compile. Since IllegalArgumentException is a subclass of Exception, they cannot be used in the same multicatch block since it is redundant. For this reason, option E is correct. If the redundant exception class were removed from line p2, then the rest of the program would compile and print Unknown followed by Done! at runtime.
9. E. Line 2 does not compile because a compact constructor must have the same public access as the record itself. Lines 3 and 4 do not compile because compact constructors cannot set field values with this. They can only modify constructor parameters. The constructor on line 6 compiles, as the access modifier does not need to match for noncompact constructors and chained constructors. Line 9 does not compile because species() is supplied by the record, which does not match getSpecies(). In this case, using the @Override annotation triggers a compiler error. Finally, the toString() override is correct. Since four lines do not compile, option E is the answer.
10. F. While an Instant represents a specific moment in time using GMT, Java only allows adding or removing units of DAYS or smaller. This code throws an UnsupportedTemporalTypeException because of the attempt to add YEARS. Therefore, option F is correct.
11. C, D. To be a valid functional interface, an interface must declare exactly one abstract method. Option A is incorrect, because CanClimb does not contain any abstract methods. Next, all interface methods not marked default or static are assumed to be abstract, and abstract methods cannot have a body. For this reason, CanDance does not compile, making option B incorrect. Options C and D are correct answers because each contains exactly one abstract method. Option E is incorrect because it contains two abstract methods, since test() is implicitly abstract.
12. B, E. Options C and D are incorrect because the jlink command includes the module in - - addmodules itself. Option A is incorrect because it also includes any dependencies and transitive dependencies. Therefore, option B is correct. Additionally, option E is correct, as jlink generates a directory with folders for the runtime image.
13. C. On the first iteration through the loop, the first five characters are removed, and builder becomes "s growing". Since there are more than five characters left, the loop iterates again. This time, five more characters are removed, and builder becomes "wing". This matches option C.
14. D. Line 4 does not compile because enum constructors cannot be public. Line 10 also does not compile because a case statement must use an enum value without the type. In particular, FALL is permitted, but Season.FALL is not. For these two reasons, option D is correct.
15. B, E. The switch statement is a complicated way of checking if numEggs is 0 and assigning the result to hasEggs. All the options attempt to convert it to a switch expression. Options C and F do not compile, as they use return statements. Option A does not compile because it is missing semicolons after each branch. Option D also does not compile since it has semicolons outside the {}’s, instead of inside them. This leaves us with the answers: options B and E.
16. B, E. The original implementation compiles and prints 18. When using an IntStream, the sum() method returns an int. This makes option B correct, as both an int and a long will print 18. By contrast, option A is incorrect because a double will print 18.0. Option C is incorrect, as there is no unboxed() method available on a stream. Removing line 11 causes the code to not compile on line 13 since mapToInt() is not defined on IntStream (the stream is already made of int values), making option D incorrect. Removing line 13 causes the code to not compile on line 14, as sum() is only defined on primitive streams, not Stream<Integer>, making option F incorrect. Option E is the remaining correct answer. Running operations in parallel for such a tiny list is not helpful, but it does not change the result.
17. C. All arrays are objects regardless of whether they point to primitives or classes. That means both balls and scores are objects. Both are set to null so they are eligible for garbage collection. The balls array is initialized to contain all null references. There are no objects inside. The scores array is initialized to all 0 values. Therefore, only two objects exist to be eligible for garbage collection, and option C is correct.
18. D. This code actually does compile. Line c1 is fine because the method uses the ? wildcard, which allows any collection. Line c2 is a standard method declaration. Line c3 looks odd, but it does work. The lambda takes one parameter and does nothing with it. Since there is no output, option D is correct.
19. E. This code is correct, making option E the answer. While a record provides an implementation of equals(), you are free to write your own. Due to flow scoping, coin is available after the if statement. The instanceof handles null and incorrect classes.
20. F. The code compiles without issue, making options D and E incorrect. Applying the ternary ? : operator, the variable ship is assigned a value of 10.0. Both values are implicitly cast to double. The expression in the first if statement evaluates to true, so Goodbye is printed. Notice that there is no else statement on line g2; therefore, the second if statement is also executed, causing See you again to also be printed. Since two statements are printed, option F is correct.
21. D. The code does not compile, so options A, B, and F are incorrect. The first compilation error is in the declaration of the lambda expression for second. It does not use a generic type, which means t is of type Object. Since equalsIgnoreCase() expects a String as a parameter, the lambda expression does not compile. The second compilation issue is in the lambda expression in the main() method. Notice that process() takes an ApplyFilter instance, and ApplyFilter is a functional interface that takes a List<String> object. For this reason, q in this lambda expression is treated as an instance of List<String>. The forEach() method defined in Collections requires a Consumer instance, not a Function, so the q.forEach(first) call does not compile. For these two reasons, option D is the correct answer, since the rest of the code compiles without issue.
22. C. Lines 12–18 do not compile because neither the class nor method defines a generic type T. The declaration on lines 6–7 does not compile because ? extends RuntimeException cannot be assigned a broader type. This leaves us with two declarations that do compile, making option C the correct answer. Line 4 compiles, since any type of generic list can go in List<?>. The declaration on lines 9–10 also compiles because ? super RuntimeException does allow a broader exception type.
23. D. This question appears to ask you about involved array logic. Instead, it is checking to see if you remember that instance and class variables are initialized to null. Line 5 throws a NullPointerException, making option D correct.
24. E, F. Options B and D are incorrect because those flags do not exist on the jdeps command. Options A and C do exist, but do not include suggested replacements. Options E and F are correct, as they will include a table of suggestions if any internal APIs are used in the JAR.
25. D. The code compiles, making option E incorrect. The key here is that the AtomicInteger variable is threadsafe regardless of the synchronization methods used to access it. Therefore, synchronizing on an instance object, as in increment1(), or on the class object, as in increment2(), is unnecessary because the AtomicInteger class is already threadsafe. For this reason, option D is the correct answer.
26. B. You are allowed to use null with instanceof; it just prints false. The bus variable is both a Vehicle and a Bus, so lines 18 and 19 print true. Then it gets interesting. We know that bus is not an ArrayList or Collection. However, the compiler only knows that bus is not an ArrayList because ArrayList is a concrete class. Line 20 does not compile. The compiler can’t definitively state that bus is not a Collection. Some future program could create a subclass of Bus that does implement Collection, so this line compiles. Therefore, only line 20 fails to compile, and option B is correct.
27. B. The application compiles and runs without issue, so options E and F are incorrect. Java uses passby- value, so even though the change to length in the first line of the adjustPropellers() method does not change the value in the main() method, the value is later returned by the method and used to reassign the length value. The result is that length is assigned a value of 6, due to it being returned by the method. For the second parameter, while the String[] reference cannot be modified to impact the reference in the calling method, the data in it can be. Therefore, the value of the first element is set to LONG, resulting in an output of 6,LONG, making option B the correct answer.
28. E. The code correctly creates a LinkedList with three elements. The stream pipeline does compile. However, there is no terminal operation, which means the stream is never evaluated, and the output is something like java.util.stream.ReferencePipeline$2@404b9385. This is definitely not one of the listed choices, so option E is correct.
29. C. The Chimp and Bonabo classes do not compile because they do not implement the abstract getName() method. This gives us two compiler errors and the answer of option C.
30. B, D. There is no requires direct directive, making option B correct. If the requires transitive directive were used in the answer options instead, option A would be the answer, since it represents a superset of the functionality. Additionally, option D is correct because java.base is implied whether you specify it or not.
31. B, D. At the end of the method, state1 and state3 both point to "water", while state2 points to "mist". Since there are no references to "ice", it is eligible for garbage collection, making option B correct. However, garbage collection is not guaranteed to run, so option D is also correct.
32. D. The execute() method returns a boolean, not a ResultSet. This causes a compiler error on line 18, which makes option D correct.
33. A, F. On line 11, numWorms is incremented to 1. Line 12 increments the value again to 2. However, postincrement happens at the end and 1 is printed, giving us option A. On line 13, we take the bitwise complement by negating the value and subtracting one. This results in - 3, which is option F.
34. E. The code does contain compilation errors, so option A is incorrect. The first is on line 8. The readAllLines() method returns a List<String>, not a Stream<String>. While parallelStream() is allowed on a Collection, parallel() is not. Next, line 14 does not compile because of an invalid method call. The correct NIO.2 method call is Files.isRegularFile(), not File.isRegularFile(), since the legacy File class does not have such a method. Line 18 contains a similar error. Path is an interface, not a class, with the correct call being Paths.get(). Finally, line 19 does not compile because the read() method throws Exception, which is not caught or handled by the main() method. For these four reasons, option E is the correct answer.
35. A, B, C. All of the options compile, but three throw an exception at runtime. Options A and B are correct because peeking returns the next value or null if there isn’t one without changing the state of the queue. Option C is correct because polling removes and returns the next value, returning null if there isn’t one. Options D, E and F are incorrect because both popping and removing throw a NoSuchElementException when the queue is empty. This means these return 18 for the first call and throw an exception for the second.
36. B. This class is never instantiated, so the instance initializer never outputs 1, and the constructor never outputs 3. This rules out options A, D, and E. A static initializer runs only once for the class, which rules out option C. Option B is correct because the static initializer runs once printing 2, followed by the static method callMe() printing 4 twice, and ending with the main() method printing 5.
37. A, C. Checked exceptions that inherit Exception but not RuntimeException are required to be handled or declared. FileNotFoundException and IOException are checked exceptions, which must be handled or declared, making options A and C correct. ArithmeticException and IllegalArgumentException extend RuntimeException, making them unchecked exceptions. Option D is also incorrect, as it is not the name of a standard exception class in Java.
38. C. This problem appears to be about overriding a method, but in fact, it is much simpler. The class CarbonStructure is not declared abstract. Since it contains an abstract method, line q1 does not compile and option C is correct. If the class were declared abstract, then it would compile and print 15 at runtime.
39. A, E. In Java, a locale can be represented by a language code in lowercase, or a language and country code, with language in lowercase and country in uppercase. For these reasons, options A and E are correct. Options C, D, and F are incorrect because the lowercase language must be before the uppercase country. Option B is incorrect because the language is missing.
40. C, D. A fully modular application has all named modules, making options B and E incorrect. A bottomup migration starts out with unnamed modules, making option C correct. By contrast, a topdown migration starts by making all modules automatic modules, making option D correct.
41. D. When converting an array to a List, Java uses a fixedlength backed list. This means that the list uses an array in the implementation. While changing elements to new values is allowed, adding and removing elements is not, making option D the answer.
42. B, C, E. Options B, C, and E are valid statements about nested classes. An anonymous class can declare only one supertype, either a class or an interface, making option A incorrect. A member inner class can contain static methods, making option D incorrect. A local class can access only final and effectively final local variables, making option F incorrect.
43. A. First, the list is sorted ascendingly. Then it is reversed so it is in descending order. Since our binary search also uses descending order, we meet the precondition for binary search. At this point, the list contains [seed, plant, flower]. The key is to notice that the first element is now seed rather than flower. Calling a binary search to find the position of seed returns 0, which is the index matching that value. Therefore, the answer is option A.
44. C, F. The javac command takes a - - modulepath parameter. You need to memorize that the short form of this option is - p. This makes options C and F the answer.
45. E. Line 25 creates a Spliterator containing four toys. Line 26 splits them into two equal groups by removing the first half of the elements and making them available to batch1. These get printed on line 30, making option E the answer. Note that the splits on lines 27 and 28 are meaningless since batch1 has already been split off.
46. D. Line 9 is not reachable and does not compile, since FileNotFoundException is a subclass of IOException, which has already been caught. Next, the local variable e is declared twice within the same scope, with the declaration on line 12 failing to compile. Finally, the openDrawbridge() method declares the checked Exception class, but it is not handled or declared in the main() method on line 21. Since lines 9, 12, and 21 need to be changed for the code to compile, option D is correct.
47. D. Lines 2 and 3 do not compile because var can only be used for local variables. Line 6 does not compile because a single underscore is not permitted as a variable name. These three compiler errors cause option D to be the answer. Lines 4 and 5 use var correctly.
48. C. The variables smiley and smirk are both false since a String should be compared with a method rather than ==, especially when not comparing two values from the string pool. The variable blush is also false because one value is uppercase and the other is lowercase. The variable cool is true because both values are uppercase. The variables wink and yawn print are true because they don’t look at the case. Finally, sigh is false because the text block has a trailing new line. This makes option C the answer.
49. A, B, E. First, option A is a valid functional interface that matches the Runnable functional interface. Option B is also a valid lambda expression that matches Function<Double,Double>, among other functional interfaces. Option C is incorrect because the local variable w cannot be declared again in the lambda expression body, since it is already declared as a lambda parameter. Option D is also incorrect. If the data type is specified for one variable in a lambda expression, it must be specified for all variables within the expression. Next, option E is correct because this lambda expression matches the UnaryOperator functional interface. Finally, option F is incorrect. The statement name.toUpperCase() is missing a semicolon (;), which is required to terminate the statement.
50. E. Leaving it blank gives package access. This would be the correct answer if the code we wanted to receive access were in the same package as com.mammal. Since it is not, we would need modules in order to restrict the access and option E is correct.
