1. E. Line c1 correctly creates a stream containing two streams. Line c2 uses flatMap() to create a Stream of four Integer objects. The first problem is on line c3, which tries to use the numbers as if they are still pairs. Since we have a Stream<Integer> at that point, the code does not compile, and option E is the answer. Line c4 does not compile either, as you can’t call a List method on an Integer.
2. B, F. The LackOfInformationException class does not compile, making option A incorrect. The compiler inserts the default noargument constructor into InformationException, since the class does not explicitly define any. Because LackOfInformationException extends InformationException, the only constructor available in the parent class is the noargument call to super(). For this reason, the constructor defined at line t1 does not compile because it calls a nonexistent parent constructor that takes a String value, and option B is one of the correct answers. The other two constructors at lines t2 and t3 compile without issue, making options C and D incorrect. Option E is also incorrect. The getMessage() method is inherited and the override is valid because new unchecked exceptions can be declared. Option F is the other correct answer. LackOfInformationException is a checked exception because it inherits Exception, but not RuntimeException.
3. B, C, E. Java supports three types of comments: singleline (//), multiline (/* */), and Javadoc (/** **/), making options B, C, and E correct. Option A contains a */ in the middle of the expected comment, making the part after the comment Insert */ invalid. Option D is incorrect because a dollar sign ($) is not a valid comment in Java. Finally, the hash (#) is not a comment character in Java, so option F is incorrect.
4. E. All code in a trywith- resources declaration must implement Closeable or AutoCloseable. The call to stmt.setString() does not meet that criterion. Since it doesn’t compile, option E is the answer.
5. A. The init() method is accessible from the same package. The race() method is available from the same package or subclasses. Since Tortoise is in the same package, both methods are available and option A is correct.
6. A, C, F. The IntUnaryOperator takes an int value and returns an int value. Options B and E are incorrect because the parameter types, Integer and long, respectively, are not int. Option B is incorrect because unboxing can be used for expressions, but it cannot be used for parameter matching. Option D is incorrect because dividing an int by a double value 3.1 results in q/3.1 being a double value, which cannot be converted to int without an explicit cast. Option E is incorrect because the parameter type must match, and long is not the same as int. The rest of the lambda expressions are valid, since they correctly take an int value and return an int value. Therefore, options A, C, and F are the answer.
7. A, D. Java methods must start with a letter, the dollar $ symbol, or the underscore _ character. For this reason, option B is incorrect, and options A and D are correct. Despite how option A looks, it is a valid method name in Java. Options C, E, and F do not compile because the symbols - , \, and # are not allowed in method names, respectively.
8. E. This is a correct moduleinfo file. It exports the com.mammal.cat package to any modules that want to use it. By contrast, it exports the com.mammal.mouse package to only one other module. Finally, it demonstrates the uses directive. Since the code is correct, option E is the answer.
9. B. The Roller class uses a formal type parameter named E with a constraint. The key to this question is knowing that with generics, the extends keyword means any subclass or the class can be used as the type parameter. This means both Wheel and CartWheel are allowed. The wheel1 declaration is fine because the same type is used on both sides of the declaration. The wheel2 declaration does not compile because generics require the exact same type when not using wildcards. The wheel3 and wheel4 declarations are both fine because this time there is an upper bound to specify that the type can be a subclass. By contrast, the super keyword means it has to be that class or a superclass. The wheel6 declaration is okay, but the wheel5 one is a problem because it uses a subclass. Since wheel2 and wheel5 don’t compile, the answer is option B.
10. B, F. Chicken and Egg may either be subinterfaces of First or implementers of it, making option B one of the answers. Since the permits clause is specified, Chicken and Egg may either be in the same file or a different file than First, making option F correct. They must not be nested since First.Chicken is not used in the permits clause.
11. C. This array has three elements, making listing.length output 3. It so happens that each element references an array of the same size. But the code checks the first element and sees it is an array of size two, making the answer option C.
12. D. The lambda syntax is incorrect. It should be - >, not =>. Therefore, option D is correct.
13. D. The load() method is on ServiceLoader, not ServiceLocator. Therefore, option D is the answer.
14. F. The array is not sorted. It does not meet the precondition for a binary search. Therefore, the output is not guaranteed and the answer is option F.
15. B. Only the service locator and service provider interface are part of the service. The service locator has a requires directive, and the service provider interface has an exports directive, which matches option B.
16. E. DoubleBinaryOperator takes two double values and returns a double value. LongToIntFunction takes one long value and returns an int value. ToLongBiFunction takes two generic arguments and returns a long value. IntSupplier does not take any values and returns an int value. ObjLongConsumer takes one generic and one long value and does not return a value. For these reasons, option E is the correct answer.
17. D. The code compiles and runs without issue. The m symbol represents minute, so 59 is the first value printed, followed by a period. The next symbols, ddhh, represent day and hour in twodigit formats, so 1401 is printed. Finally, 'MM' represents an escaped string using single quotes, so it is printed just as MM. For these reasons, option D is correct.
18. E. When the rollback to sp1 happens on line 21, it invalidates all prior savepoints. This causes the rollback to sp2 on line 27 to throw a SQLException and option E to be the answer.
19. A, D, E. Mixer and Spinner are member inner classes that require an instance of Kitchen and Mixer, respectively, to instantiate. Since bake() is defined as an instance method of Kitchen, the Kitchen instance can be implied. For this reason, option D is correct. Options A and E are also correct and rely on a new instance of Kitchen rather than the implied one. Options B and C are incorrect because there is no instance of Mixer used. Option F is incorrect because the reference type Spinner is undefined without the names of the enclosing classes.
20. A, B, D. The unmodified code prints xxxxx, so you’re looking for options that also print this value. Option A is correct because the labels are not referenced. Option B is correct because the outer while is broader than the inner while. If race.length() <= 4 is true, then race.length() < 4 must be true. The inner loop prints xxxxx, and the outer loop is not needed. Option C is incorrect because the outer loop only prints xxxx without the inner loop. Option D is also correct because a label is not used. Options E and F are incorrect because you cannot remove the while portion of a do/while loop.
21. C. This question is tricky because it mixes testing valid identifier names with module concepts. The com.apple module is valid and demonstrates a simple module. Additionally, the com.apple$ module is valid since $ characters are permitted in identifier names. The com.4apple and com.applefour modules are invalid because identifier or identifier segments may not start with a digit nor contain a dash. The com.apple4 module is invalid because declares is not a valid module directive. Since only two are valid, option C is the answer.
22. A. With a helpful NullPointerException, the program will print the variable that triggered the exception. In this case, the first exception is when tea is unboxed to a double on line 56, making option A correct. Lines 54–55 do not throw a NullPointerException because instanceof applied to a null value is always false, causing line 55 to be skipped.
23. B. Modules have a cyclic dependency when they depend on each other. In this example, com.animal and com.plant depend on each other. The other two modules depend on com.animal and com.plant but do not participate in the cycle. If the requires directive in either com.animal or com.plant was removed, we would no longer have a cyclic dependency. Since only one directive needs to be removed, option B is correct.
24. A, C, E. To start with, bustNow() takes a Double value, while bustLater() takes a double value. To be compatible, the lambda expression has to be able to handle both data types. Option A is correct, since the method reference System.out::print matches overloaded methods that can take double or a Double. Option E is also correct, as it’s the equivalent rewrite of option A with a lambda expression. Option B is incorrect, since intValue() works for the Consumer<Double>, which takes Double, but not DoubleConsumer, which takes double. For a similar reason, option D is also incorrect because only the primitive double is compatible with this expression. Option C is correct and results in just a blank line being printed. Finally, option F is incorrect because of incompatible data types. The method reference code is inside of a lambda expression, which would be allowed only if the functional interface returned another functional interface reference.
25. B, E. The first two iterations through the loop complete successfully, making option B correct. However, the two arrays are not the same size, and the for loop only checks the size of the first one. The third iteration throws an ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, making option E correct.
26. E. The code compiles without issue. The main() method creates a thread pool of four threads. It then submits 10 tasks to it. At any given time, the ExecutorService has up to four threads active, which is the same number of threads required to reach the CyclicBarrier limit. Therefore, the barrier limit is reached twice, printing Jump! twice. While eight of the tasks have been completed, two are left running. Since no more tasks will call the await() method, the CyclicBarrier limit is never reached, and a deadlock is encountered at runtime, with the program hanging indefinitely. For this reason, option E is correct.
27. B, D. The trywith- resources statement requires resources that implement AutoCloseable, making option A incorrect. Option B is correct and a valid statement about how resources are closed in trywith- resources statements. Option C is incorrect because the exception in the try block is reported to the caller, while the exception in the close() method is suppressed. Option D is the other correct answer because neither catch nor finally is required when trywith- resources is used. Finally, option E is incorrect. While the AutoCloseable interface does define a close() method that throws a checked exception, classes that implement this method are free to drop the checked exception, per the rules of overriding methods.
28. E. The code does compile. Records and classes can be defined as local types within a method. Additionally, the compact constructor replaces the constructor parameter of length, making option E the answer.
29. C. The class compiles and runs without issue, so options D and E are incorrect. The result of findSlow() is deterministic and always 1. The findFirst() method returns the first element in an ordered stream, whether it be serial or parallel. This makes it a costly operation for a parallel stream, since the stream has to be accessed in a serial manner. On the other hand, the result of findFast() is unknown until runtime. The findAny() method may return the first element or any element in the stream, even on serial streams. Since both 1 1 and 3 1 are possible outputs of this program, the answer cannot be determined until runtime, and option C is the correct answer.
30. A, E, G. In a text block, a backslash (\) at the end of a line means to skip the line break. Since there is no whitespace or line break after otter, option A is correct. Following pup are three whitespace characters: the actual space character, the \s, and the new line, which matches option E. Remember that \s means to preserve all whitespace at the end of the line in addition to adding a space. Finally, escaping quotes is allowed but not required, giving us option G.
31. D. The name instance variable is marked final and must be assigned a value exactly once when it is declared, by an instance initializer, or by a constructor. The noargument constructor calls the Ghost(String) constructor, which assigns a value of "Boo" to name. The process returns and the constructor assigns a value of "Casper" to name. Since name is final, it cannot be assigned a value twice. The compiler detects this error, making option D the correct answer.
32. E. Option A is incorrect because the lock() method does not return a boolean value. Option B allows the class to compile (making option D incorrect), but is not guaranteed to print Tie! 10 times. Depending on the thread ordering, it may print the value one to 10 times, as some threads may get a value of false on the call to tryLock(). Since the tie() method does not wait, the calls to interrupt() do not alter the program behavior. Option C is incorrect because tryLock() with a time value also requires a TimeUnit parameter. For these reasons, option E is the correct answer. Note that the volatile attribute has no impact in this program.
33. E. Since it’s not a primitive stream, the underlying type is Stream<Short>, which means the data type of b is Short. On the other hand, the data type of a, c, and d is Integer. Because Short and Integer both define a doubleValue() method, these statements compile. The problem is with the return type of the two lambda expressions. The identity is set as 0, not 0.0, so the expected return type of each lambda expression is Integer, not Double. For this reason, neither lambda expression matches the parameters of the reduce() method, and option E is correct.
34. F. A class can inherit two default interfaces with the same signature, so long as it correctly overrides them, which Tree does. It can also call an inherited version of the default method within an instance method, provided it uses the proper syntax. In this case, it does not. The correct syntax is Plant.super.grow(), not super.Plant.grow(). For this reason, this line does not compile. Since it is the only line that does not compile, option F is correct.
35. B. Line 22 does not compile because a static interface method cannot call an instancebased abstract method. Since this is the only line that does not compile, option B is correct.
36. E. The code compiles, so option C is incorrect. The first two lines successfully create directories. The first move() statement moves a file from /flower/rose.txt to /garden, not /garden/rose.txt. There is already an empty directory there, but since the REPLACE_EXISTING flag is provided, the /garden directory is replaced with a file. The next move() statement throws an exception because there is no source file at /garden/rose.txt. For this reason, option E is correct.
37. D. The switch expression is close to correct. However, the case keyword is missing before "hen", making option D the answer. If this were resolved, option B would be correct.
38. B, D, F. The clock variable is accessed by a class in the same package; therefore, it requires package or less restrictive access (protected and public). The getTime() method is accessed by a subclass in a different package; therefore, it requires protected or less restrictive access (public). Options B, D, and F conform to these rules, making them the correct answer. Options A and C cause the Snooze class to fail to compile because the getTime() method is not accessible outside the package, even though Snooze is a subclass of Alarm. Option E causes the Coffee class to fail to compile because the clock variable is only visible within the Alarm class.
39. C. Lines 14 and 15 create RemoveMe<Integer> and RemoveMe<Long> instances, respectively. Since we are using generics, the method calls on lines 16 and 17 autobox the primitive values (1 and 1L) to the Integer value 1 and Long value 1L, respectively. Therefore, the method on line 11 removes the argument that matches this object value, and not the element at index 1, from the two lists. These are the objects that result in [2, 7, 8]. Line 27 is trickier. Since we are passing a primitive int, the index is used (and not an object matching the value) in the call to remove().This means line 28 prints [2, 1, 8], which is not what we are looking for. Since only lines 19 and 20 give us the desired output, option C is the answer.
40. D. Variables are allowed to start with an underscore and are allowed to contain a $. Therefore, all the variable declarations compile, making options A, B, and C incorrect. However, the println() method refers to the uninitialized local boolean. Since local variables are not automatically initialized, the code does not compile, and option D is correct.
41. B, E. Java picks the most specific method signature it can find in an overloading situation. Since promotion is considered first, longs is output and option B is the answer. If that method were removed, Java would next go to autoboxing, printing Integers and making option E the other answer.
42. F. The date/time APIs count months starting with one rather than zero. This means localDate is created as October 6, 2022. This is not the day that daylight saving time ends. The loop increments the hour six times, making the final time 07:00 with no change in time zone offset. Therefore, option F is the answer.
43. E. The Clownfish class contains an invalid override of the getFish() method. In particular, it cannot declare any new or broader checked exceptions. Next, there is an error in the main() method. Since v is a var, it is given a specific type based on the reference at compile time, in this case Fish. Fish is a supertype of Clownfish, so it cannot be assigned to a Clownfish reference without an explicit cast, resulting in a compiler error. Since the code contains two lines that do not compile, option E is correct.
44. D. Tracking the code, round() returns 11. The ceil() method finds the next highest nonfractional number, which is 9.0, and turns sum into 20.0. Finally, the abs() method adds another 20.0 giving us 40.0. Therefore, option D is correct.
45. D. Line 15 calls the method on line 9 since it is a Watch object, printing watch. Line 16 uses a SmartWatch object. However, the getName() method is not overridden in SmartWatch, since the method signature is different. Therefore, the method on line 9 gets called again. That method calls getType(). Since this is a private method, it is not overridden, and watch is printed again, making option D the correct answer.
46. B. The code compiles, so option F is incorrect. The Files.mismatch() method returns the index of the first value that differs between the two files. Since this method is case sensitive, the first letters h and H differ, and 0 is printed, making option B correct.
47. B. The hop() method has protected access, which allows subclasses to call it, making line p1 compile. Additionally, code in the same package is allowed to access it, making lines p2 and p3 compile. The code compiles and runs without error, making option B the answer.
48. B. The code does not compile, so option E is incorrect. A variable declared before the start of a trywith- resources statement may be used if it is final or effectively final. Since s is modified on line 13, it is neither; therefore, line 10 does not compile. Line 12 also does not compile. In a multicatch expression, the two classes cannot be subtypes of each other. Other than lines 10 and 12, the rest of the code compiles, making option B correct.
49. A. Option E is incorrect since the ofNullable() method creates an Optional whether or not the parameter is null. Options B and D are incorrect and do not compile because max() takes a parameter to specify the logic for determining the order. Both options A and C compile. The order of the pipeline methods matters here. Option C prints all three numbers since the filter() operation happens after the peek(). Option A is correct as the methods are in the correct order.
50. D. The code definitely does not compile. The first problem with this code is that the Drum class is missing a constructor, causing the class declaration on line 8 to fail to compile. The default noargument constructor cannot be inserted if the superclass, Instrument, defines only constructors that take arguments. The second problem with the code is that line 11 does not compile, since it calls super.play(5), but the version of play() in the parent class does not take any arguments. Finally, line 15 does not compile. While mn may be a reference variable that points to a Drum() object, the concert() method cannot be called unless it is explicitly cast back to a Drum reference. For these three reasons, the code does not compile, and option D is the correct answer.
